Where is all the time I saved?

From the stone age to the industrial era, we are in a continuous process of identifying ways and means of saving time.

Few ways of saving time that we have opted for are:

Faster modes of transport on the slower ones. The fastest one so far known is hyper-loop by Elon Musk 700 mph.

Faster communication compared to the slower ones. The fastest ones so far are optical fibre in the wired category and microwave in the wireless.

Faster city life to the slower village ones. We live our life much faster with no time for anything, compared to the villagers who have enough time for everything.

It simply means, we are not anymore fighting to survive. We are actually fighting to die and the best part is, we don’t know about it but we take pride in it...I call this unconscious incompetence.

All my life I have been commuting faster, skipping meals, sleeping less, communicating quicker, and doing every possible thing faster every-time, just to realise that I might die much earlier. This does not end good!!

The question of interest is, Where is all the “time” I saved?

The answer is, time cannot be saved. You can choose to experience and contribute to every moment, relish the present, live young and live long, or choose to live in a perception of saving time and feel stressed and die early.

I apologise for being critical about city life. But if we take a step back and try to retrospect, we will know that it is actually true.

Life is more like driving a vehicle. When we break a signal or honk to overtake or cut lanes, we are actually making things worst and adding to the traffic mess at the cost of risking life of self and others. On the other hand, If we enjoyed our drive, we would not like to honk or overtake others or break signals. Instead, we would offer lift to the needy, give way for emergencies, be considerate of accommodating others priorities and drive longer.

Instead of working to save time, work to enrich and touch lives, work towards making a better world with more oxygen, work towards spreading love and care. This is the only way we can earn time and live long.

Feel the air you breath and breath deeper, feel the road you walk and walk longer, sense the sight you have and sense the noise you hear, get a little more sensitive to things around you to enjoy and contribute to life.

Spend time in living and not saving, Happy living!!!
